[Put your answers to the ethics questions in this file]

Ethics Question 1

a. What is the programmer's responsibility in knowing the context of evaluation of an image processing algorithm/tool?
How should this affect their decision-making process when implementing the algorithm/tool?

The programmer should seriously consider the consequences of their algorithm before deployment. If the programmer
notices that the data which is being obscured is important for the viewer of the data to consider, that data
should not be obscured even if it undermines any other motives. The decision-making process should involve more than
just getting the program to work, but it should also involve the consequences of the program working as intended. Will
this data presented in this way, where parts are highlighted and parts are obscured, mislead my audience in any way? If
the answer is yes, then the software should not be deployed.

b. What information should you convey with your image in order to allow the viewer to evaluate its limitations?
How would this change with the context of use?

You should include a note that explains how your data was changed and for what purpose as well as how to change the data
back to its original form. For example, in the finding forest fires problem we could have included instructions
that explain how to revert back to the original image. This would change based on context because you would use
different techniques to highlight different parts of your data depending on what your overall goal is. The data
that you choose to highlight or obscure in one instance may be different than in another instance simply based
on the current objective.


Ethics Question 2

a. For what purposes might the final image produced by your Ghost algorithm, or other empty images of other parts
of the world, be used? Who might want to create such an idealization?

Artists could use this program for artistic purposes to create images that would not be possible otherwise. I found
that some of the test cases for the program created some visually interesting results.
In the wrong hands, someone could potentially use this program to falsify evidence, make false accusations, or to
discredit others.

b.  In class (on April 20th), we defined manipulation as hidden influence that
subverts another's decision-making powers. Of the purposes you listed in (a), which ones involve manipulation and why?

As I mentioned in the first part of this ethics question, this program could be used to manufacture evidence, make
false accusations, or to discredit others either in a court of law or online. As a result, this program could be
dangerous when paired with social media, where a person is guilty in the court of public opinion long before
their case is taken to court.

